Welcome back.
I hope you are able to think about why link lists might be good or bad.
In this video let's discuss the answer one key thing that you may have seen is that link lists have
a sort of loose structure that allows you to insert a value into the middle of the list.
By simply resetting a few pointers just like we saw in the animation I can insert anything that I want
and the only changes that happen is somewhere in the middle here.
And this is the same for deleting node in a linked list.
And we remember with an array data structure how.
When we wanted to insert something that wasn't at the end of the array we had to add the item.
Let's say in memory space one into here and then shift all the items down and index down which cost
us a lot of time.
It cost us 0 of an.
The main difference between arrays and linked lists is that in an array an element or elements are indexed.
So if I wanted to go to item at index 5 I can do that easily in a linked list.
You start at the head and traverse the list until you get to Item 5 which is 0 of and and this idea
of traversal is the same as iteration that we did with erase where we go 0 1 2 3 4 5 except we like
to call this traversal because you don't really know when the linked list will end.
You start from the head and you keep going until you hit No.
And as you'll see in our coding example we're going to have to use something like a WHILE loop.
When we implement our own linked lists because we don't usually know how long the list is going to be
another advantage that an array might have is that most computers have caching systems that make reading
from sequential memory that is memory right next to each other.
Shelfs right next to each other.
Faster than reading scattered addresses.
And that's something that we've talked about already array items are always located right next to each
other in computer memory.
Link list and nodes instead are actually scattered all over memory.
Kind of like hash tables so iterating through a linked list or traversing through a linked list is usually
quite a bit slower than iterating through items like an array even though they're technically both of
an.
However these inserts that we can do in the middle of a linked list is a lot better than an array.
What about hash tables.
Remember this when we talked about hash tables well just like hash tables when we insert something into
a linked list we just scatter it all over memory and we can just keep adding a keep adding a keep adding
it and we don't have to do any of that on shifting or shifting on the indexes that we did with the race
which is really really nice.
You can also delete notes very easily versus with an array.
But the one advantage that it has over hash tables is that there is some sort of order to link list
each node points to the next note.
So you can have sorted data on like a hash table.
So if we look at our big row of linked lists we can see that prepend which is a common language we say
to add to the beginning of a linked list.
Prebend is 0 1 append which is at the end of the list.
To add a new item is of one look up which we can also call traversal to look for an item.
Let's say we want to find 10 is also in because we have to go from the head all the way until we find
what we're looking for.
Insert is also of an Because we have to go one by one find the index.
We don't know how longer linked list is we find the index and then insert there which technically could
take of an and again something that we're going to implement in code and have a better understanding
of and delete is also all Vende because we have to find the items.
Now you're thinking to yourself hold on insert and delete and arrays are also all of them.
So how is that better.
And that's something that we're going to get into when we actually take a look at the code.
Remember this is the worst case in which case we insert or delete the very last item and most of the
times that won't be the case a linked list.
Again something that we're going to talk about a little bit when we code our own linked list but looking
at a diagram like this it's really hard to truly understand how they work and what length lists are.
So we're going to code our own.
And the next video we're going to talk about this final piece of the puzzle what a pointer is.
And then finally code our own linked list so we understand the big-O implications a little bit better.
I'll see that one.
Babai.